okay we're going to make some activated
mother culture or activated e/m some
people call it and where we just have
some simple ingredients we have our
mother culture here and we have
blackstrap molasses and we have water
we're making a 32-ounce one-chord batch
starting out with about 20 ounces of
water filling it up halfway I heated the
water up a bit I'm going to put the
molasses in and I heated the water just
kind of help them molasses dissolve a
little better because it's sticky always
sexually getting stuck on the edges yeah
making a mess into it so now you want to
stir this up really well does it stick
on the bottom take the mother culture
and wanna another one and a half ounces
is what we're using for that looks
pretty good so just going to fill this
up to the 32 ounce mark on here
pour it in
and it's a little too much space there
so I want to add a little water to get
it up a little closer to the top so
there's not a lot of air space that's
fine like that make a little too much or
a little out that's pretty good put the
cap on a little shake and then just
going to leave it and what's going to
happen is this is going to start to brew
ferment and the way you can tell when
it's done is the pH is going to be three
point seven or below this generally
takes between four days and two weeks
depending on how warm it is if it's in
the 80s or 90s even will go faster and
so what I'll do I'll start doing after a
few days is just checking the pH daily
there's some pH papers take off a strip
like this and I'll do a little
demonstration with the mother culture
since I know that this is ready to go
and has the right pH just wet it down
and as you can see that has that kind of
orangey look which matches closest to
between three and three point five right
now so the mother culture is good so if
I were to test this we just made we'll
probably closer to the dark green on
this end 5.5 so I said I'll be checking
this every day after about four days and
also which want to do is at least once a
day just open the cap for a second and
let out some air just a little bit of
build up in here not much but that's one
reason why I use a plastic bottle so
Kasich got you know station mister for a
couple of days the bottle would expand
was glass by break so use plastic so
that's all there is to it